# Early Emergency Vehicle Warning System using Arduino with GPS Module
According to the traffic stats of the year 2019, 30% of the death cases recorded in India are due to the delay in the arrival of ambulance. Ambulance has proven to be a life-saver in many cases where extreme and quick intensive support has to be provided to the patient. But these days the traffic issues and ill-management techniques have posed a new problem for this life-saver in exercising its duty. The increase in vehicles has increased traffic congestion and improper management techniques have made the situation even worse. Even some of the effective and scalable-management ideas have proven to be a big failure. One such idea was of constructing separate lanes for ambulances. But considering the cost and the amount of time invested into it, this idea seemed to be impractical on Indian roads. Hence, as the responsible citizens of the nation and with a thought of solving this problem, we have come up with the idea of a device that can alert vehicles on the arrival of an ambulance. Vehicles in the vicinity of the ambulance are alerted, taking into consideration the GPS location of the ambulance and the vehicles present in the range of its coordinates. The vehicle-alert might be a message displayed on their screens present in the automobile or by displaying the alert message on the nearby traffic LED sign board. This mechanism of sending an alert is possible from a range of over a kilometer (KM). With this the problem of vehicles being an obstacle to the ambulance can be reduced to a larger extent.
